---
slug: apple-iphone6-and-watch
title: Apple's iPhone 6 and Watch
description: In this post, Chris shares his reaction to Apple's announcement of the iPhone 6, iPhone 6+, and Apple Watch.
createdAt: 2014-10-12
author: Chris Plowman
tags: gear reviews, general
image: /images/for-posts/iphone-6-apple-watch.png
headerTextColor: white
backgroundColor: rgba(0,0,0,.5)

---

I have to say that the keynotes always give me a touch of sadness now that Steve has passed.  He had a remarkable way of making you excited about the products and clearly showing you that this is something that you NEED.  Hell, your life has been incomplete until now and you, poor fool, didn't even realize it.  But Steve did, oh yes, oh yes, he did.  Steve ventured into the vast depths of technical what-will-be and emerged with a new gem just for you.  The Steve Jobs’ reality distortion field was never properly studied, but I have to believe that he emitted an electro-magnetic pulse that drove your brain waves in whatever manner he wanted.  Don't get me wrong, Tim Cook seems a smart and capable guy, he's just not a part of the X-Men.

Nevertheless, Mr. Cook still puts on a decent show, and definitely is following the cues of his predecessor.  The casual air and outfit, the conversational tone, even the phrases and pacing all ring of Jobs, as if to say, “we’re still on Steve’s plan, we promise.”  In some ways it’s a nice homage to a revolutionary, but I also think it’s time to move on.  Tim needs his own schtick and I think it’s an important symbol to step out of the master’s shadow and declare, “I got this now and it’s different, but still awesome.”

##iPhone 6 and the “Bigger than Bigger”
Seriously, “Bigger Than Bigger”?  That’s the best marketing they could come up with?!  Did Samsung write this for them?  Worst. Slogan. Ever.  That combined with some of the lamest ads I’ve ever seen come out of Apple just about had me wondering if they are just throwing in the towel or allowing the marketing campaign to be run by a 6-year old.  Holy failed concept Batman!  Must have blown the budget on the watch…

Nevertheless, they did bother to put out a couple new phones so I guess I should go ahead and tell you what I thought about them.  Eh, not bad.  Some pretty impressive performance boosts and the ability to do Apple Pay was a pretty compelling feature for me.  The camera had some really nice improvements as well, including improvements to image quality, autofocus, and the ability to shoot 1080p video at 60fps and slow-mo up to 240fps at 720p.  Time lapse seemed like a weird feature to have on a phone camera to me though.  Who uses that?  The update to AC for wireless was pretty expected, but a welcome update.  Of course they are bigger, which to me is a turn off.  I really preferred my iPhone 4 size to my 5, and now the 6 is even bigger.  The 6 Plus is one of those god-awful phablets that look like you’re holding a brick up to your head.  I’m obviously the minority here, judging by the insane pre-sale on the iPhone 6 as well as the slew of giant Android phones you see, but I like something small and portable that’s simple to use with one hand.  When I want something bigger, I go to a tablet or a computer.  I feel like the larger phones make it more difficult to use (and clearly Apple agrees or they wouldn’t have added new software features to help you reach everything) and it just doesn’t feel as comfortable in the pocket.

The worst part for me, as a long time Apple enthusiast, is that I feel the differentiation between the iPhone and Android phones just shrunk a little more.  I’d be lying if I didn’t tell you I was considering a switch.  I waited in those insane lines when the original iPhone came out and I’ve had one ever since, but I’m less and less excited about their offerings.  If I jump to Android there are a lot more size and resolution options.  I do have an Android tablet along with an iPad though, and so far I still prefer Apple.  Apple’s platform just feels a little more polished and user-friendly to me, but just a touch.  Ultimately, as a developer I will always have devices on both platforms (heck, I’ll even get a Windows phone if and when I find some real life users).  But, the battle for what phone will be in my pocket under a paid service plan is heating up.

As for the iPhone 6, I was really looking forward to upgrading my 5, but now I think I’ll hold onto it a bit longer, at least until I’ve had a chance to hold a 6 in my hand and in my pocket to see how big of a deal that extra size makes.  I love some of the extra features in the 6 plus, especially with the camera, but I’m not quite ready to carry a purse…

##Apple Watch -- Too Much, Too Little, Or Just Right?
Apple recently announced it''s new watch, but with prices starting at a fairly steep $349, is it worth it?  I have been watching the wearable market with a passing interest for a little while.  While I think the general idea is kind of cool, I''m still on the fence for whether the devices provide a compelling enough use case for the money and if it''s something I will really use or end up putting in a drawer to gather dust until I finally get around to eBay''ing it in a couple years...

For me, the neatest aspect of the new device was the input.  The inclusion of the digital crown for control was brilliant.  It''s the kind of idea that is so immediately grasped that it seems obvious, but clearly it wasn’t to the other wearable makers.  That addresses one of my personal key gripes about smart watches - I can''t see what I''m interacting with!  The pressure sensitivity on the watch face also seems like a very useful way to add an alternate gesture, though that''s one that I''ll have to try before I can give it a definitive thumbs up or down.  Nevertheless, with Apple''s past successes in human interface creation, I feel pretty optimistic.

They definitely introduced some cute features to interact with your friends, like sending them a quick sketch or your heart beat.  However,  to me those are more gimmicky features that I would probably use once or twice and then forget about.  The main use case is of course quick glances to get updates and simple info without that insane hassle of pulling your phone all the way out of your pocket.  That’s the problem, $349+ is a lot for what amounts to an extremely small increase in convenience.  Of course, if you don’t have an iPhone 6, the Apple Watch gives you another alternative to take advantage of the very cool Apple Pay, but only time will tell how ubiquitous that will become and thereby determine it’s usefulness.

The only real immediate functionality gain comes from the health monitoring features.  That’s certainly a huge area and all the sports bracelets, arm cuffs, and advanced heart-rate monitors have shown that there’s a real market there.  Apple looks like they have a pretty solid offering here too.  The altitude monitoring provides an awesome new capability in this type of device, but it will be interesting to see how precise that is.  I was really looking forward to this being waterproof and finally being able to track my swimming, but alas, it’s only water-resistant.  Boo!

The good news is that even pushing aside all of the smart watch capabilities, the Apple Watch is a damn nice watch.  It looks beautiful, it’s easy to swap out the band and change the look, and it’s crazy accurate.  Being within 50ms of the true time, all the time, makes this an elite timepiece.  It was also great that Apple actually took the time to learn the watch market, something that I think the existing Android watches missed.  The Android watches just didn’t look or feel like great watches, but Apple Watch does and that goes a long way to justifying that high price tag.

Overall, the device looks pretty cool and seems to have some nice health features that I could see being useful while exercising and tracking daily activity.  Nevertheless, I’m not entirely sold.  For one thing, I’m a bit of a watch-lover, which you might think would make me all the more excited for these smart watches, but in actuality it’s kind of a deterrent.  I have quite a few watches and I don’t really want to be stuck with just one.  Well, fine you say, add it into the rotation and wear it when you want… easy problem to solve.  Sure.  That could work, but there’s some pretty big problems with that.  One, of course, being the health monitoring, which you really want to be as close to 24/7 as possible to get the most out of it.  Then you look at the cost and utility.  An expensive watch that you wear daily is one thing; an expensive watch that you wear once or twice a week is quite another.  Plus, the less you wear it, the less you think about it, and the less you use it.  So not only does the utility go down because you are not wearing it as often, but also when you are wearing it, you’ll probably still reach for the phone since you are not accustomed to looking at your watch for those updates.  I guess the flip side would be annoying too — constantly staring at your regular watch looking for an email update and only getting the time.  The Time!  What the hell kind of watch is that?!

So, yeah, I’m still on the fence.  I really don’t think the watch is the best device for a wearable.  It’s intuitive because we’ve seen various functionality in watches before like calculators.   The movies have definitely envisioned these types of device for years, making the idea familiar, but to me it’s just not quite right.  I’d rather see a bracelet, or better yet a selection or combination of devices and designs.  I think we’ll see this area evolve a lot in the coming years.  Let’s face it, for health monitoring the ultimate is a device that is In Us, not On Us.  Pop in a little chip, let it monitor our blood for far more deep reaching analysis, combine that with sensors in our shoes, arm cuffs, whatever and suddenly you have a much more robust and comprehensive view of health.  “Hey, Mr. Wearer, please take an aspirin and get to the hospital, you’re about to have a heart attack.  Doctors have already been informed and are expecting you.  Want me to call a cab?”  Nevertheless, the current wearables are a step toward that inevitable future.  I believe Apple Watch just raised the bar a little higher in aesthetic and usability, pushing us a little closer toward the Halo device from Continuum.  Ultimately, whether I buy this watch or not will probably come down to my development work.  I’ve already thought of a health related app that I would like to do for the watch, so if I move forward with it then I will definitely buy one.  As a regular consumer though, I’ll probably wait for at least one more generation and see if they come up with a wearable-only must-have feature that compels me.